Spring JPA 
----------
Spring JPA is better than compared to Spring ORM as it is Advanced Model it is also like doing same like object saving in database where we did in hibernate

for this now create a maven project in maven setting catalog as internal
set mavenarchtypequcikstart 1.1 & set Artifact Id as springdatajpa which is nothing but project name

now to do this project we have to add the dependencies from maven repository to pom.xml in the project

springcontext--->5.3.31
hibernate-core-->5.6.15
MySQL connector-->8.3.0
spring data jpa-->2.7.18
lombok-->1.18.42
------------------------------------------------------
in this we don't need to write dao layers of 2 files like dao file and daoimpl file instead of that we create the repo package and in that we create this interface of the below code

package com.codegnan.repo;

import org.springframework.data.jpa.repository.JpaRepository;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Repository;

import com.codegnan.entity.Student;

@Repository
public interface StudentRepository extends JpaRepository<Student, Integer>{

}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Spring-Data jpa
===============
Spring Data JPA is a part of the larger Spring Data project, designed to make it easier to integrate with relational database using java Persistence API (JPA). It simplifies database interactions by providing a high-level abstraction layer, making it easier to implement JPA-based repositories. Spring Data JPA significantly reduces the boilerplate code required for interacting with databases and support repositories, queries and transactions.

key Concepts
1. JPA(Java Persistence API)
    JPA is a standard specification for object-relational mapping (ORM) in Java. It defines how Java objects can be mapped to relational database tables and how to query data in a database.
    JPA is implemented by different frameworks such as Hibernate, EclipseLink, etc. In Spring Data JPA, Hibernate is the default implementation.
2. Spring Data JPA:
    Spring Data JPA extends JPA with a higher level of abstraction to simplify the implementation of JPA-based data access layers in Spring applications.
    It uses repositories to simplify database operations and provides a set of predefined methods for standard CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations.
    It also includes features for advanced querying, custom queries, pagination, and sorting, without needing to write boilerplate code for these tasks.

Core Components of Spring Data JPA
1) Repository:
The heart of Spring Data JPA is the Repository interface. Spring Data JPA provides built-in repository interfaces that extend JpaRepository, CrudRepository, and PagingAndSortingRepository.
CrudRepository: Provides CRUD operations.
JpaRepository: Extends CrudRepository and adds more JPA-specific methods, like flushing the persistence context, deleting in batch, and batch fetching.
PagingAndSortingRepository: Provides methods to support pagination and sorting.

2) Entities;
Entities represent Java objects that are mapped to database tables using JPA annotations. Each entity class is usually annotated with @Entity, and its fields are mapped to columns in the table using the @Column annotation.
The @Id annotation marks the primary key of the entity.

3) Repositories Interface:
A repository interface is a Java interface that extends one of the Spring Data JPA repository interfaces (e.g., JpaRepository, CrudRepository).

Advantages of Spring Data JPA
1. Reduces Boilerplate Code:
   Spring Data JPA eliminates the need to write repetitive code for CRUD operations and query generation. By simply defining methods, the repository takes care of the implementation   automatically.

2. Custom Queries:
You can easily define custom queries using the @Query annotation or JPQL, and Spring Data JPA handles the execution.

3. Automatic Query Generation:
The framework can automatically generate SQL queries based on the method names (e.g., findByName will generate SELECT * FROM entity WHERE name = ?).

4. Integration with Spring:
Spring Data JPA integrates seamlessly with other Spring features, such as Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, and Spring Transactions.

5. Flexible Paging and Sorting:
Built-in support for pagination and sorting out of the box, which is helpful for handling large datasets in a user-friendly manner.

6. Easy Customization:
While it generates most queries automatically, you can still write custom queries using @Query and Criteria API for complex use cases.

7. Improved Maintainability:
With Spring Data JPA, you can easily manage and maintain your persistence layer. It abstracts away the complexities of working with JPA and the database, letting developers focus on the business logic.
